# Pamboo

**Purpose:**
A customizable, transparent LLM agent tree to manipulate and analyse data with Pandas.

**How to Test?**
1. Clone this repo
2. Run `pamboo.py`
3. Enter your openAI API key
    1. It is not stored or sent anywhere besides openAI itself. Feel free to check!
4. Read the output of a simple request based on test.csv

**Example Output:**
```
Please enter your openAI API key: openai-key-you-entered-here

Here's the content of test.csv, so you can check that the correct answer is 10:
   Unnamed: 0  a   b    c
0           0  0  10  dog
1           1  1  10  dog
2           2  2  20  cat
3           3  3  10  dog
4           4  4  20  cat

Pamboo: Starting work on the following task:
load test.csv into a dataframe and print the average of column "b" for row which column "c" is "dog"

root: Can I solve task main_task right away or do I create a plan?

root: Here is the solution to the task:

10.0

root: Code to achieve solution:

import pandas as pd

# Load the csv file into a dataframe
df = pd.read_csv("test.csv")

# Filter the dataframe to include only rows where column "c" is "dog"
dog_df = df[df['c'] == 'dog']

# Calculate the average of column "b" for the filtered dataframe
average_b = dog_df['b'].mean()

# Print the average
print(average_b)
```

**Why Pamboo?**
What other LLM agents can do:
- Load data from different formats (csv, parquet, etc)
- Print an answer for a question on a dataset

What Pamboo can do as of now:
- Everything other agents can do
- Custom actions such as:
    - Save new dataframes after manipulation
    - Generate graphs and save them
    - <ins>Return ALL the objects used by the agent to the user, loaded in memory</ins>

The underlined feature is what drove me to start this project. I was surprised that non of the current solutions allow the user to manipulate
objects their own agents created!

The initial idea is to use Pamboo iteratively in a notebook environment to speed up analyses. Eventually, this allows the creation of no-code analyses that POs and stakeholders could run themselves.

**Observations:**
This is an MVP version. It executes code generated by open AI, so be careful about your usage!

If you want to test more complex tasks, I recommend dockerizing this application.

In theory, the agent tree structure of Pamboo can execute any type of code for any task you ask of it. So this might be generalizable for tasks other than data analysis with Pandas.

**Next Steps:**
- Dockerizing to mitigate security issues of executing AI generated code
- Test more complex tasks